feat: added lab to build a quickstart (#1686)
newrelic/developer-website: src/markdown-pages/instant-observability/build-a-quickstart/create-a-dashboard.mdx

Each procedure in this lab builds on top of the last one, so make sure you [_deploy your application_](/instant-observability/build-a-quickstart/deploy-your-application) before proceeding with this one.

</Callout>

New Relic One dashboards allow you to quickly observe and make meaning of the information that you collect. You can gather and chart the specific data you want to see and customize it the way you want to see.

You're going to create dashboard in New Relic One. Navigate to https://one.newrelic.com/ and sign in with your account. Here, you can see different tabs such as **Browse Data**, **Dashboards**, **Alerts & AI** etc. 
Move to **Dashboards** and click **Create a dashboard** in the top right corner. 

![create a dashboard](../../../images/instant-observability/create-dashboard.png)

Name your dashboard **FlashDB** and click create.

![name your dashboard](../../../images/instant-observability/name-dashboard.png)

## Add charts to your dashboard

Once the dashboard is in place, you can start creating charts. You're going to add the folloiwng charts:
- Database methods
- Avergae response time
- Errors
- Database size
- Cache hits
- Keys

> Hover over the dashboard and click **Add a new chart**.

Reviewer: You have a sub-section for all of the charts except the first one. For consistency, you should add one here:

> ### Database methods
>
> Hover over the dashboard and click **Add a new chart**.

![add a new chart](../../../images/instant-observability/add-new-chart.png)

New Relic One allow you to add charts using query builder or you can choose to add text, images or links using Markdown. Click **Add a chart**.

![add a chart](../../../images/instant-observability/add-a-chart.png)

> It will take you to a query builder option. Edit the query as follow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This takes you to a query builder option. Switch to the NRQL editor and edit the query as follows:
```

A few suggestions here:

1. Prefer present tense
2. Specify a key step
3. Fix a typo

> >```SQL

Reviewer: Use the code block without the quotes here:

````
```sql
SELECT count(*) FROM fdb_method FACET method 
```
````

(note that before I recommended `SQL` as the code highlighter. I was wrong, it actually needs to be lowercase. Sorry)

>SELECT count(*) FROM fdb_method FACET method 
>```

![database methods chart](../../../images/instant-observability/fdb-methods.png)

> Here, you group your results of FlashDB methods by attribute values and see the count of each type of transaction. You can choose to present your results in different formats such as table, billboard, pie chart etc. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, you see the count of each FlashDB query, grouped by method. You can choose to present your results in different formats such as table, billboard, or pie chart. 
```

A few suggestions here:

1. The query reads left to right as SELECT, FROM, FACET, and the text reads nicer if it follows the same pattern.
2. "such as" implies that you're not giving the entire list, so you don't need etc.
3. Add the Oxford comma, per style guide

![chart formats](../../../images/instant-observability/chart-formats.png)

> Change the chart type to pie, name your chart and click save.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change the chart type to pie, name your chart "Database methods", and click save.
```

A few suggestions here:

1. Tell the user what to name the chart
2. Oxford comma between steps/independent clauses

![pie chart](../../../images/instant-observability/piechart.png)

The chart is now visible on your dashboard.

![piechart dashboard](../../../images/instant-observability/piechart-dashboard.png)

You can add more charts to your dashboard following the same pattern. To do so, click **+** in upper right hand corner. 

![add more charts](../../../images/instant-observability/add-more-charts.png)

> This will take you to the same _Add to your dashboard_ page, allowing you to add another chart, text, image or links. Add a few more charts to your dashboard as follow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This takes you to the same **Add to your dashboard** page. Add another chart to your dashboard.
```

A few suggestions here:

1. Prefer present tense
2. UI in bold
3. You already explained what this page is for, so it sounds redundant to explain it again
4. Since you're already in a series of sub-sections, you can just transition to the next one while also instructing the reader what to do next

### Average response time
Run the following query to observe the **average response time** of database transactions. 

> >```SQL

Reviewer: One more time for this comment:

1. No quotes
2. `sql` not `SQL` (sorry 😅)

> > SELECT average(fdb_create_responses), average(fdb_read_responses), average(fdb_update_responses), average(fdb_delete_responses) FROM Metric SINCE 30 MINUTES AGO TIMESERIES

Reviewer: > SINCE 30 MINUTES AGO

Is there a reason to specify a time here? In my understanding, TIMESERIES alone respects the timeframe the user chooses in the UI so a specific `SINCE` clause is unnecessary.

>```

![average response time chart](../../../images/instant-observability/average-response-time.png )

> >**Note:** Make sure to click **Run** to see above results. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **Run** to see results. 
```

This doesn't need to be a note. It works well as a follow-up instruction.

> Here, you observe average response time for different transactions for past 30 minutes. Click save to add this chart to your dashboard as well. Follow the same procedure to add the following charts as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, you observe the average response time for different transactions. Click **Save** to add this chart to your dashboard. Follow the same procedure to add the rest of the charts.
```

### Errors

> 

Reviewer: A small introduction/transition here would be nice:

> For the Errors chart, use the following query:

>```SQL

> > SELECT sum(fdb_create_errors), sum(fdb_read_errors), sum(fdb_update_errors), sum(fdb_delete_errors) FROM Metric SINCE 60 MINUTES AGO TIMESERIES

Reviewer: Like the last query, is there value in specifying the `SINCE` clause here over letting the user control it in the UI? It seems like the user can actually change this anyway.

>```

> Here, you observe errors for all database transactions for past one hour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, you observe errors for all database transactions for the past one hour.
```

I might just say:

> Here, you observe errors for all database transactions.

If you agree with my previous comment on whether the `SINCE` is necessary or not.

![errors chart](../../../images/instant-observability/errors.png )

### Database size

> 

Reviewer: A simple introduction would be nice here, too.

>```SQL
> SELECT sum(mdb_size) FROM Metric
>```

![database size chart](../../../images/instant-observability/database-size.png )

> This chart will show you the database size. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This chart shows you the database size. 
```

Prefer the present tense.

### Cache hits

> 

Reviewer: A simple introduction would be nice here, too.

Author: Can you please be specific what exactly do you mean by introduction here? 
What are cache hits? Why are we interested in this chart? Or what this chart will show? 
I'm already explaining what the charts shows after the screenshot.

>```SQL
> SELECT sum(fdb_cache_hits) FROM Metric SINCE 30 MINUTES AGO TIMESERIES
>```

![cache hits chart](../../../images/instant-observability/cache-hits.png )

Here, you observe the total number of cache hits for past 30 minutes using line chart.

### Keys

> 

Reviewer: A simple introduction would be nice here, too.

>```SQL
> SELECT count(fdb_keys) FROM Metric SINCE 5 MINUTES AGO TIMESERIES
>```

![keys chart](../../../images/instant-observability/keys.png )

Here, you observe the flashDB key count for past 5 minutes. 

> You can manipulate the above queries and change time window to focus on the data that you want to observe. Your final dashboard will look similar to the following:

Reviewer: > You can manipulate the above queries and change time window to focus on the data that you want to observe.

Like we talked about before, for this content type, we actually prefer the reader use our exact queries so they can compare their code to ours in the end.

![dashboard with charts](../../../images/instant-observability/dashboard-final.png )

## Summary

> Following this procedure, you created a dashboard and added multiple charts to it to observe your services in New Relic One.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this procedure, you created a dashboard and added multiple charts to it to observe your services in New Relic.
```
